Blog post for moveit 3 (#579)
ros-planning/moveit.ros.org: _posts/2021-04-01-moveit3_release.md

---
author: PickNik Team
comments: false
date: 2021-04-01
layout: post
title: MoveIt‼ 3 Release
media_type: image
media_link: /assets/images/blog_posts/moveit3.png
description: Announcing the release of MoveIt‼ 3 for ROS 3!
categories:
- ROS
- MoveIt
---

PickNik Robotics is proud to announce that MoveIt‼ 3 is being released for ROS 3! With ROS 2 facing EOL in just 163 months, the MoveIt‼ community has been hard at work porting the core functionality of MoveIt‼ to ROS 3, as well as introducing some exciting new features, including

> - Novel act-plan-sense control paradigm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve on slow real-time planning with the novel act-plan-sense control loop
```

Reviewer 2: There's possibly also a joke to be made here about real-time guarantees

- Improved localization: repo names aliased to ¡¡Vamos‼ in Spanish-speaking regions
- Telepathic teleoperation: leveraging the state of the art in brain computer interfaces, MoveIt‼ 3 allows you to control your robot by just thinking about where it needs to go
- Generalized planning framework for Hilbert space planning

> - Expanded test coverage now includes every line of the codebase and ensures compliance with all three of Asimov’s laws of robotics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expanded test coverage finally ensures compliance with all three of Asimov’s laws of robotics
```

Don't claim the impossible :laughing:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Finally* collision-free path planning for state-of-the-arm industry robots

```

Furthermore, taking advantage of the new ROS 3 quantum entanglement communication layer and general AI machine learning engine, MoveIt‼ 3 also boasts
- Spooky motion planning at a distance, for faster-than-light robotic applications
- Quantum kinematics, allowing for an arm to be in multiple configurations at the same time

> - Motion planning neural network, pretrained on all the YouTube robot videos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ready-to-use pet-your-cat neural network trajectory generators, trained on YouTube videos
```

> - Precognitive motion primitives: MoveIt‼ 3 will predict and learn new motions before you need them

Reviewer: :+1:  I love it!

- MoveIt‼ Surgeon: with compatible end effectors you can now easily perform routine medical procedures at home, including appendectomies, cataract surgery, and biopsies

![Quantum Kinematics](/assets/images/blog_posts/quantum_arm.gif)

> Finally, while ROS 2 was designed with industrial uses in mind, MoveIt‼ 3 will embrace the new ROS3 customer with alien API interfaces, offering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, while ROS 2 was designed with industrial uses in mind, MoveIt‼ 3 will embrace the new ROS3 user with alien API interfaces, offering
```
